Yes
>> How would you do form validation here?
>> How would you do,
you need client-side if you if you're
gonna do form validation which
requires client-side logic then you?
So basically the goal is
try to push client far down
the tree as far as you can right?
So like if you realize like
I need form validation here,
make sure that you take the only
part that needs form validation.
Take it out and put it in its own
component and make that a client.
Don't punish the rest of that component,
the rest of that page, and
force it to be client because you need
just some logic, just for this one part.
For the one part that you need,
make another component,
make that a client So,
that's how I think about it.
Yeah, yes.
>> If you wanted to redirect on,
like, form submit success,
would you still use revalidate path and
just put in a different URL or,
well, a different path perhaps?
>> Yeah, so
revalidate path won't do any redirecting.
It will just clean the cache out for
that path.
But there is a redirect.
Let me see.
Not that one, is like from next
server I believe, let me see.
Name is not there.
They do have a redirect method that
you can use to redirect anywhere
if you wanna go there.
>> I want you to do authentication checks,
do middlewares.
>> So I do have a thing about middleware.
So there is no right answer on
how to do authentication checks,
you can do them wherever you
need things to be protected.
So because server action run on a server,
you can do authentication checks
in here as well if you wanted to.
You get access to the cookie,
you can use cookies in here.
You can say, cookies, or cookie.
I don't know why it's trying
to pull from from here.
But Next.js has a cookie thing.
So you can access the cookies here.
And you know if you have
some authentication there,
maybe the authentication
is on the headers.
You can use that inside of the server
action which should give you more
information you need to lock down the
server action, or whatever you wanna do.
And the same is true for
any server side logic,
which means you could also prevent someone
from going to a page if you want it to.
On the server side, in this page, you
could just check the cookies on this page
like now you can go here, so
you could totally do that too.
It's up to you.
middlewares more App-wide authentication,
like just protect,
don't even show this route at all unless
they pass this, which is another way.
Then you also have API
authentication protection,
all the way down to database layers.
I don't think there's runway.
I think you just need to figure out
where all your points of attacks are or
all the places you need to protect and
then do the right strategy for that.
>> Someone was asking about if the actions
that TLS is running on the server
it means it runs on the server via
node while others which are client
side runs on the browser.
>> Yes 100%, server means it's running
in the node environment on a machine,
whether it's yours in development or
whatever machine you deployed it to.
And use client means it's running
in the browser like any other React
component you've ever made does.
>> Can the actions.ts process
be ahead of time compiled?
>> I don't think It can be ALT because
I think it has to be dynamic in nature,
I mean I guess I'm not sure
exactly what they mean by ALT
compile like are they saying
the TypeScript are they saying.
Yeah, that's a tough question,
I mean ahead of time could be anything
I mean This definitely can't be static.
If that's what they're getting
to like this has to be dynamic.
It's an action that has
to be performed on.
But you don't wanna memorize this or
cache this by default,
although you can,
depending on what you use, like fetch or
you can opt into next year
says new caching mechanism.
They have a cache function that you could
use to pretty much cache anything but
now from my understanding,
well, that's the thing.
The next thing is you don't really
need to or have to, like, put too much
concern into how things are being
compiled is pretty much handled for you.
That's why they have conventions.
If you follow their conventions,
then you opt into their performance, yes.
>> What about conditional error
messages based on the error type?
>> Conditional error messages
based off the error type.
That's a good question.
I know what error boundaries you get
access to the error objects in the props.
I don't know if you get
that in the error file.
That's a good thing to look
at the docs for, let's see.
If you do, yeah, you do.
There you go.
So yeah, you could do that.
You could just grab the error here.
You also get a reset here.
I knew about the reset without the error.
So yeah, you can just grab the error here.
Look at the error.type, error.message and
this would I guess I'll give you
some incentive to create a really
good error system in your application
that had different error codes.
And things that your error messages can
use to display different types of errors
or UIs and things like that.
And because this is a client component,
you can do whatever the hell you want.
So it works.
Yes.
>> He's just kind of blinking every
time you submit a new to do due to
the revalue revalidate path function,
is there a way to avoid this?
I suppose,
is kind of reloading the page or
doing some sort of
interpreting of the CSS.
>> Yeah, so let me see.
Like that.
Yeah, so I mean,
because that's because it's literally
doing a full re-render of that page.
The only way to avoid it is
kind of what I said earlier.
If you need your UI to update
off of a server mutations,
you're probably just use client instead.
So I would just go back to what you were
doing before server actions came and
handle your mutations client side.
And that way, you have more control.
I think certain mutations are really,
really good.
For side effects and
things that don't need where
the UI is depending on a response.
Because then you do have to ask yourself
questions like that, well, how do I create
a really slick UI that doesn't like
Flickr like that or something like that?
Yeah, you could probably get around it.
You could do some smart
caching you could do.
Some layout stuff like I'm
sure you can figure out a way.
But if you just did it on the client,
you're probably just better
off that way for now.
Me personally, I'll probably use server
access for like tracking analytics,
stuff like that.
Web hooks, things like that that
happened in the background.
But when it comes to UI, I'll probably
still do client stuff for now.
Cool, any other questions?
>> Is it better to use Next.js
routing which is file-based, or
use custom React routing?
I think you already covered
React routing earlier, so.
>> Yeah Yeah, I mean,
if you're not gonna use Next.js routing,
you should probably not use Next.js.
[LAUGH] That's like the whole point of it.
So yeah, if you don't want to use it or
whatever, I would just use React or
go look at another framework like
Gatsby or Remix or something like that.
Cool, any other questions?
>> I guess kind of going off of that,
what if you want to have or you have like
large application where maybe one
file you want to be more like a SPA,
a SPAM, is that something
that you can integrate or?
>> Yeah, I mean, so if you just want
one route to be a SPA, no problem.
You would just go in here.
Let's say, let's pick a file.
No, I don't wanna pick a file because
it's just gonna break everything.
Let's just make a file.
Let's make a new folder and
we'll just call this spa.
And we'll just say page, do tsx, right?
Well, first thing you do, boom,
basically a spot right now, right?
And then from there, the only now,
the only thing you have to think about.
So now, you're not doing
react server components, but
you still got to think about
server side rendering.
You got to opt,
you got to figure out like, well,
what if I'm doing like
window stuff in here, right?
And there's a lot of ways to do that.
You basically just make sure.
Now that anything that
involves a window you know,
you just wrap an if statement
that a if window was here.
That means we're on the server so
don't do this right if window is here,
we're on the browser then do this.
That's another way there's packages for
that.
And yeah, that's pretty much all you need
to do like this basically opps you back
into like spa land right.
And you don't have to worry about or
at least for this page.
And I think that's what
the Next.js team is trying to,
they're trying to make sure
that that's your choice.
Is that like you start off with everything
being server everything you perform it in
their preferred way.
And then when you wanna just kick
back out, like for this page,
it's actually a video
game that I'm making.
So it has to be a single page application.
Yeah, cool, just do this and just be
cautious of service site rendering.
So yeah, at this point, it's the same
thing that Next.js used to be.
So if you ever use Next.js 12,
this is Next.js 12 land right here,
where it's like all you're doing is
worrying about server-side rendering and
there might be even a way to opt
out of server-side rendering.
I don't know how to do it
in the app router land, but
I know in the pages router land you could.
So you might even say don't even render
this thing on the server at all,
which I can look up but I don't know
how to do that in this version.
Cool, any other questions?
>> Since we're handling most of
the data on the server side,
do we still need state
management libraries like Redux?
>> That's a great question.
You would only need state management
libraries like that on client components
that needed state management.
So, I'll give you an example to do form.
I don't have to do this on a server.
In fact, I personally probably wouldn't.
I would probably do this on a client,
so I would do a used state here.
And do an on change on
the input the traditional form.
I would traditionally just do that
because I wanna control over the UI.
So I would do the same thing there and
if there were some other app that
needed to know about that state,
I would have that state management
here and it would know about it.
So you still get that.
He's still not gonna have,
cuz like once you get into the browser,
you are on a client site land.
There's still hydration happening for
the things that need to be hydrated.
React is still being loaded.
So you like you're still gonna have that
client side interaction even though all
your pages that you might have rendered
are just HTML That just means that those
pages don't have any javascripts on them.
So basically if you just
make sure that all the code,
I mean in React Next.js will tell you if
you try to do anything with like a hook or
a state It'll say you need to do
use client so you can't miss it.
Like you can't mess it up because
it'll just be like you can't
you can't run this function you got to put
you state at the use client at the top.
So once you do that,
then it's like anything you've ever done.
Nothing's changed, so you won't even
have to think about that scenario.
Only thing you have to
think about is that,
I can't do this on a component
that doesn't have use client.
And even then, it would tell you that
you can't do that either, that like,
this doesn't work here.
So it's it's kind of hard to mess up,
and I think that's the the right way for
them to do it.
Is that you can just do whatever you
normally have done by opting into it.
So yes, you will probably still need state
management the other reason is that like
state on the server is global.
So every person shares the same state,
assuming it's not in some serverless
environment, at least in development mode.
So yeah, you don't wanna be sharing.
Imagine you just saw someone
typing in your form.
Like, that'd be weird.
So yeah, you don't want to share state
across multiple instances of a client,
across a stateful server,
because a server will be stateful.
In the execution time, so yeah,
>> If we have a server component
inside it client and
inside its server how is this loaded?
>> That's a great question.
So you are able to load server components
and clients and clients and servers.
It's basically, it's going to be loaded in
the order in which you rendered it, right?
Actually, Next.js has
a good example of this, so
I don't have to write a very long one.
Let me find it.
Let's see if they have that code example.
Yeah, basically, here it is.
So, basically there are some caveats
with how you can like I said,
it comes down to what's being loaded first
and like what props you're passing to it.
But here's an example of
like what's not supported.
So like you cannot just by default
import a server component into a client
component.
So like, for instance,
here's a client component,
you have this server component and
you're trying to bring it in.
So by default, that won't work.
So instead, you have to, in this example,
they're wanting you to,
like use a prop as a server component.
And what you can render it that way,
right?
So in this case,
they you can pass the server component as
a child prop of the client component,
right?
So you're not actually
rendering the server
component in the JSX of
the client component.
Instead, your client component
is acting more of a layout or
a template in which it renders any
children that are passed to it.
And then through some intermediary
server component you can import
that client component and have
the server component be a child of it.
Basically, you just literally
cannot import a server component
into a client component.
Can they be rendered next to each other?
Yeah, like this.
You just can't import it in.
You have to find a way to do it this way.
You can only import a server component
into another server component.
But you can import a client
component into a server component.
Any questions on that?
That's kind of confusing,
I had to think about it from I was like.
Now, they have a good ride opponent here
though that talks about all the things.
>> So
do the two server components run first?
>> Do the two server components run first?
Well, because they happen on the server,
they would get executed.
And then the client would
probably be server-side rendered.
So they will all probably
be ran near the same time.
The only difference is the client
component will then be bootstrapped on
the front end,
whereas the server components won't.
>> So with the form example,
we use client.
Does the validation wrap this server
component to the server component or
do the data fetching and stuff?
>> I think the question was,
because we have this this to-do form here
that's being rendered inside
of a server component.
How does the server component pass
down props to the forum if the forum
was a used client,
if it was a client component?
And what does that look like?
As long as it's a serializable prop,
it's got to be fine.
So you shouldn't have a big deal there.
But I think what they're asking is like,
well, how does the server component that's
rendering this to-do form know
when this form was submitted?
Because it can't.
Like call a function or
something like that.
Yeah, it wouldn't because you
can't pass a function as a prop so
either this will have to
remain server like it is now.
Or you make this a client and
then you also make the thing that needs to
know when this thing is done a client and
then those would be two client components
because there's no other way around it.
So you just that's when
you opt back into like,
you guys need to figure out a way
to push this down even further or
like everything that needs this
is just gonna be a client.
Like it's not wrong to have
a client component like,
I don't want people to like avoid them
like the plague like that is not the case.
Use clients as much as you need, but
the way you should be thinking about
is like only when you need it.
So it should be less of them,
not because they're bad but
because you don't need them as
much as you thought you did.